>> I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard,
and this is Mystery Teachings.
What stages do we go through
in our personal transformation
process, and what are
the potential pitfalls we
might encounter along the way?
In this episode, we explore
the alchemy of life,
and the seven stages
of transformation
that are revealed to
us by the ancient art
and science of alchemy.
When alchemy first
came into my life,
I was immersed in my PhD studies
in physics, and to begin with,
I had the stereotypical
bias that alchemy
was an outdated pseudoscience.
I was skeptical, because
when I thought of alchemy,
I thought of a bunch of
medieval puffers and charlatans
trying to turn lead into gold.
I thought, I'm a real scientist.
I have nothing to
learn from alchemy.
I was biased towards not
touching it or even giving it
the time of day, but
that's because it
was how I'd been programmed
to view it by the slant
that it was given in
our history of science.
The historians and
scientists largely
dismissed alchemy and gave
it this bad reputation.
There wasn't much of anything
with practical application
that we could test or apply.
This was frustrating to me
as an experimental scientist,
because if we want to
bring this forward,
we have to make it practical.
I wanted to find the
keys to bridge this
into a more grounded state of
application and testability.
So what changed my perspective?
My mom was at a used
bookstore in California,
and she liked to buy
books, but I was too busy
with graduate school,
and I told her
I don't have time to
read anything else,
so don't buy me any more books.
Well, there she is in
this used bookstore,
and there is a clearance
table near the checkout line.
And then as she
went to check out,
the book was screaming
my name at her,
so she decided to trust
her guidance and buy it.
She had given me a book about
the Emerald Tablet, written
by Dennis William Hauck.
And by this point, I'd been
experiencing too many signs
pointing me to alchemy, so
I put aside my reservations
and decided I could keep an
open mind and read the book.
As I was reading it, I
realized very quickly
that alchemy was not at all
what I was taught in school.
It was a treasure
trove of wisdom,
and it was exactly what I
was looking for as a way
to bridge science
and spirituality
on a practical level.
How does alchemy do that?
Well, first we have to recognize
the real history of alchemy.
Alchemy is the grandparent
of modern science.
There was a time when all
scientists were alchemists,
and they were very spiritual.
They didn't separate
spirituality from science.
When you think of
alchemy, what's
the first thing
that comes to mind?
Most people think of either
the Philosopher's Stone,
or turning lead into gold, or
the process of transformation
and transmutation.
For me, I thought of
turning lead into gold.
And from our rational scientific
worldview at the time in 2000,
every scientist knew this
wasn't possible, at least
not for a human here on Earth.
But as I read more into
alchemy, what I realized
was that Western alchemists were
using a metaphorical language,
and their writings were
coded in these metaphors.
When you read them, if you
try to take them literally,
they sound crazy.
But when you've been initiated
and had the oral teachings
handed down, you
realize the metaphor
and can begin to
decode the meaning.
If we take the idea of turning
lead into gold as a metaphor,
what does it mean?
The lead is about the
heaviness, the impurities,
the dross of our being.
This is what we want to
transform and transmute
into the gold, which represents
perfection, incorruptibility,
and the beauty within.
Turning lead into gold
on a metaphorical level
is about turning our
corruptible state
into an incorruptible
state and coming
into a more perfected
state of being.
Now, if we look at
it more literally,
there are those who claim
it's possible to turn lead
into gold.
In India and in the West, people
have done public demonstrations
of such transmutations.
Even from a scientific
perspective, it's possible.
It happens every
day in the cosmos
as stars go through their death
process and become supernovas.
This is how all of the heavier
elements in the universe
are generated.
And in this process,
we move all the way
up the periodic chart
from hydrogen and helium
to everything else.
All of the heavier
elements only come in
because of these supernovas.
This is cosmic alchemy,
like the Phoenix
rising from its own ashes.
So yes, it's possible.
But the question is, is
it possible to create
that amount of fusion with
an Earth-based system?
Research has been done using
particle accelerators in 1981
at the Lawrence Berkeley
National Laboratory,
and they succeeded
in producing gold
from lower elements
like bismuth.
Bismuth is just adjacent to
lead on the periodic table,
and they said that the same
process would work for lead.
It's just more difficult.
So is it possible that the
ancient alchemists actually
did turn lead into gold?
The jury is still out
on that one, I think,
but we know it's
physically possible,
and the key is in how
we harness energy.
Now, traditional
scientists are doing it
based on pure material
physics, but they're
leaving out alchemy and the
ability of consciousness
to impact the quantum field.
In order to truly
be an alchemist who
can harness the
quantum field, we'd
have to become the Philosopher's
Stone within ourselves.
Hermes Trismegistus,
the Thrice-Great Hermes,
received this name
because he mastered
the three levels of his
being, body, soul, and spirit.
And to do so, he mastered the
three philosophies, or the arts
and sciences of metaphysics.
These are alchemy,
astrology, and theurgia.
So yes, it's possible,
but the alchemists
had a very different mindset
than today's scientists.
They understood nature and
recognized that the three
essentials are in everything.
In their metaphorical
language, they called them
salt, sulfur, and mercury.
These represent body, soul,
and spirit, with consciousness
being part of soul.
They paid attention to
the alchemical process
to harness
consciousness and then
bring this into the equation.
Alchemists understood
that the pure essence,
the original divine blueprint,
is within everything.
But here, in its
raw physical state,
it's corrupted in a way
that dampens the potential.
And what we want to do is
eliminate the impurities
to transform and transmute that
raw material into its highest
potential.
What we're doing
in this process is
infusing more of
that divine spark,
more of the spiritual
energy and consciousness
into the physical materia.
The alchemists of
old observed nature,
experimented, and rediscovered
the formula for how to do this.
The most basic version
of this formula
is solve et coagula, which
is Latin for dissolve
and coagulate, or
separate and recombine.
As I was reading that first
book on the Emerald Tablet,
I learned about the seven
stages of transformation,
and I could immediately
see how this
was happening in my own life.
I'd started to prioritize
my spiritual development
at that time, and
was experiencing
a process of transformation as
a result. The more I studied,
the more I realized
there's a natural flow
to this alchemical
process that's universal.
It applies to our
lives just as much
as it applies to chemistry,
medicine, and science.
But getting through all seven
stages is not a guarantee.
We have to work for it.
As we go through
the process, there
are some places
we can get stuck.
And if we don't make it all
the way through, we backslide.
We go back and repeat the
early phases again and again
until we dig in
and break through.
Let's dive in to explore
what these stages are,
and how not to get stuck.
In alchemy, these seven
stages are traditionally
called calcination, dissolution,
separation, conjunction,
fermentation, distillation,
and coagulation.
What in the world
do these terms mean?
Well, in their
original essence, they
relate to chemical or
physical processes,
but they can also
apply to our own life
and to the various
stages that we go through
in our transformational journey.
Let's explore each of these
and what they mean for us.
How does this alchemical
process start?
Well, it starts with a catalyst.
Think of a time in your
life when you experienced
a really upsetting event.
It could have been
the loss of a job,
or a big breakup, or
a traumatic accident.
Something that really shook
the foundation of your life.
It could even have been
as simple as someone
just offending you, and
you got flared up and angry
from the insult.
This kind of occurrence
becomes, potentially,
the first step of calcination.
In the moment, it
feels very upsetting.
We feel burned by it,
like a fire just blazed
through our life,
or an earthquake
shook things into disarray.
But when we move
through it, we can
look back on that
time in our life
and see that it was actually
a catalyst for transformation.
It's hard going through
it, but in the end,
we come out stronger
because of it
so long as we don't get
stuck in victimhood.
Through facing
such challenges, we
come to know ourselves, our
gifts and our inner resources,
more deeply.
This is because the
alchemical process
is happening in our life.
This first step of alchemy,
the calcination stage,
is a burning and breaking down.
In the physical
process of alchemy,
for example, a raw herb
is harvested from nature
and then dried.
From there, the first thing
we do to it is pulverize it.
We pound it and grind
it with a mortar
and pestle until it
becomes this fine powder.
Its old form is destroyed.
It's like a death or
loss of what once was.
And as if that isn't enough,
at some point we might also
light it on fire and burn
it down to ash or salt.
It's a very intense
process that completely
destroys the old form.
There's nothing gentle
or comforting about it.
This is the beginning
of separating out
the essential pieces
within that raw materia.
In alchemy, there is
a saying that goes
"all things transform by fire."
And Paracelsus, the 15th century
alchemist and grandfather
of modern pharmacology,
said "first
and chiefly, the principal
subject of this art is fire.
It possesses a state
and power of vivifying.
The furnace and the fire
may be compared to the sun.
It heats the furnace
and the vessels,
just as the sun heats
the vast universe.
For as nothing can be produced
in the world without the sun,
so also in this art,
nothing can be produced
without this simple fire.
No operation can be
completed without it.
Is the Great
Arcanum of the art."
Fire is thus the
initiating and driving
force that moves the
alchemical process forward.
But why do we start with fire?
Well, let's be honest
with ourselves.
It usually takes this kind
of burning to move us out
of our comfort zone.
Without it, we
often get complacent
or into a certain inertia.
Most people tend to
stay there until life
sends these events that burn
and shake their foundation.
Once the fire comes along, we
start to move and transform.
The alchemist approaches
life with the understanding
that evolution is
the flow of nature,
and that to continue
to progress and improve
is the will of the divine.
Even though we see
entropy in the world,
there's really a general
movement towards order.
There's a natural order to
things, and it's systematic.
We could say the mechanism for
this progression is alchemy.
And as we come to understand
what that mechanism is,
we can harness it.
We can learn to work with
it, and more proactively
live the alchemy of life
rather than passively
allowing it to happen to us.
How do we do that?
Well, it starts by willingly
walking into the fire
rather than running
away from it.
We push ourselves out
of the comfort zone
and embrace opportunities
to grow and transform.
In this case, the
danger is not the fire.
It's what happens if
we avoid the fire.
If we run away
from the challenge,
or avoid dealing
with it or shut down,
we're not going to progress.
The thing about
fire is that we need
to learn how to control it.
Fire can be destructive
if it's not controlled,
but if we don't
have enough fire,
it will lead to stagnation,
apathy, and depression.
If there's too much, it leads
to anger and destruction.
Part of our work
as an alchemist is
to learn how to control it while
recognizing its power to burn.
We have to respect the fire.
Once are willing to face the
fire and move through it,
what comes next?
Well, think about what happens
when our ego gets burned,
or we have a really
upsetting event.
What tends to happen next?
Emotion.
Our emotions get stirred up.
This brings us to the
second stage of dissolution.
Now dissolution on
a physical level
is when we dissolve something
in water or some other liquid.
And whatever is left over from
that calcination stage, that
pulverized materia or powdery
ash, is now put into a liquid
and dissolved.
Metaphorically, water tends
to relate to our emotions.
Here, our emotions begin to
rise up from the subconscious
into our awareness.
We feel them, we express
them, and we may even
have a good cry.
There's nothing like
a good cry to soothe
the burn after the calcination.
But in this stage,
things are murky,
and it's hard to get clarity.
One of the worst things
we can do in this stage
is try to make decisions when
we're in the throes of emotion.
A lot of people do that, and
it creates unnecessary drama
in their lives.
So here we need to stay
self-aware and learn
some emotional control.
We must recognize when we're
upset and not thinking clearly,
and then remind
ourselves this is not
the time to make any decisions.
So how do we move through
this stage more smoothly?
Well, by finding an
appropriate outlet
for this emotional energy.
We want to release it and let
it flow rather than holding it
back, but water or
emotion can also
be destructive if it's not
controlled and redirected.
So whatever outlet
we use, it needs
to be the appropriate outlet
and not directed at anyone.
Some examples include
journaling, or exercising it
off, or having a good cry with
a friend, or talking to someone
you trust to get
it off your chest.
But be careful here.
We don't want to come from
a place of complaining.
Rather, we're simply
expressing how
we feel so that we can discharge
the energy in a healthy way.
The goal is to move past
any anger or sadness
and go deeper to figure out
what's really underneath it.
One of the pitfalls
here would be
to get stuck in
the emotional drama
and playing the
part of the victim.
If we stay in that
emotional state,
we don't move through it.
So it's important to get
really self-reflective here.
As alchemists, we want
to learn how to move
through these stages faster.
What happens as we start
delving into this watery phase?
It starts to draw
our core essence out
away from any impurities.
It's a very cleansing process.
Dissolution is a purifying step.
We're not separating
out what yet,
but we are starting to
draw out what's essential.
And once we really let
the emotion pass through,
it's kind of like what happens
after you have a good cry.
You get to the point
where you don't
have any more tears to shed.
The emotions pass or dissipate,
and we feel ready to move on.
Well, after the storm
passes, and the mind
becomes more clear
and calm, here we
can get the clarity of what
we need to really figure out
what's what.
This is the transition to the
third stage called separation.
The separation stage is when
things have had enough time
to sit and settle
down, and as it does,
the essences that were
extracted from the old form
are now more free
to separate out.
At a physical level, we would
allow our dissolved solution
to sit for a while undisturbed.
And what happens is that
the lighter essences
rise to the top while the
denser ones sink to the bottom.
Think about what happens when
we brew a loose leaf tea.
First, the color and fragrance
gets extracted into the water.
Then, after it has
brewed long enough,
the tea leaves sink to
the bottom of the cup.
And if we let it sit for a
while without disturbing it,
an oily film would
even form on the top.
We can then spoon off
the oil to separate it
into its own vessel.
Next, we'd pour what
remains through a filter,
and the liquid
essence passes through
while the more dense materia
gets caught in the filter.
Through this process
we're separating the three
essentials.
Then in alchemy, we take
each of these essentials
through further
purification to bring them
into their most purified state
before then later recombining
them.
How this relates
to our process is
that we start to realize the
underlying connections that
were triggered by this event.
For example, perhaps
this event reminded us
of some trauma that
happened in our past,
and that's part of
why we got so upset.
It hit on a time when we felt
unloved or hurt, perhaps,
and it brought something up
that hasn't fully healed.
And when we get clear on
why we felt the way we did,
we identify the fear
that we're facing,
or a belief that we have
about ourselves or the world,
and we become aware of
our emotional attachments
and start to realize what's
really going on within us.
And now that we can see
it all more clearly,
we can ask ourselves,
what do I want to keep?
And what do I need to let go of?
What isn't working that led to
this event in the first place?
We realize that the event
was just a catalyst,
and we start to see the
impurities within ourselves
that are corrupting
our life, our mind,
and our relationships.
Here we get clear on
what we need to clean up.
And now we come to a
clear frame of mind,
allowing for better
introspection
and decision-making.
But it requires that
we tell ourselves
the truth about ourselves
rather than making it only
about the outside situation.
Sometimes at this
stage we also realize
that our old behaviors were
tied to certain social groups.
And as we start to clean
things up for ourselves,
we may need to
make some changes.
We might find that we're having
a hard time relating to some
of those old friendships.
Maybe some of those
friends even try
to re-engage us in the
old unhealthy patterns,
because it's just what
we always did together.
So there comes a
point on our journey
where we might find
we need to separate
from old relationships that
aren't matching us anymore.
Perhaps it's time to
break free and just focus
on our growth and healing.
We need to give ourselves
time to figure out who we are
and stabilize our new
identity and our way of life.
Now, where we can get
stuck at this stage
is if we're holding on
to those old attachments.
There may be certain things
that aren't serving us,
but we hold on to them
because it's what's familiar.
We know it's not good for
us, but it's what we know,
and we're afraid to let it go.
This could apply to addictive
patterns, relationships,
career, or anything our
former self identity
was wrapped up in.
In time, as we continue
to grow in new directions,
we'll feel less connected to or
fulfilled by those old things.
And only when we let
go of the old can
we create room for the new.
And this stage might feel
isolating or lonely at times,
but it's an act
of self-love to do
the healing we need
to do for ourselves
and figure ourselves out.
The alchemy is driving
us, and we know inside
that this is what we need to do.
After we let go, how do
we move forward from here?
This brings us to the
fourth stage of conjunction.
Finally, we've reached a really
nice part in the journey.
Letting go the old
actually brings us
a sense of liberation.
It's like a weight
has been lifted,
and we're starting to
feel good about ourselves
and our situation again.
We've rediscovered aspects of
our deeper self, our strengths
and core qualities.
We're learning more
about ourselves
and getting in touch
with who we truly are.
We recognize both our
gifts and our liabilities.
We have a deeper
connection with ourself,
and now we can bring all these
essential pieces back together
again.
We're stabilizing in a whole new
frequency and pattern for life,
and we begin to draw to
us new people who resonate
at that same wavelength.
We know we're not at
our full potential yet,
but we're starting to
see some glimpses of it,
and this encourages us to
continue forward and keep
on track so that we can
reach our greater potential.
This rejoining of the
now-purified essences
into a more harmonious whole
is what conjunction means.
But as we bring the
pieces back together,
we do so in a
measured way, making
sure each essence is in
perfect proportion and harmony
to the others.
Now, in physical alchemy, this
stage often creates a tincture,
but it's at a higher vibration
than just a simple extraction.
That's because everything has
been purified before bringing
it back together.
Now, the thing
about conjunction is
that it's a nice stage to
be in, so the trap we need
to watch out for
here is to not get
too comfortable at this stage.
We're only at the midpoint
of the alchemical process.
It's not complete yet.
If we stop here,
we stagnate again,
and then we
backslide, and then we
have to go through
the first four stages
again and again until we
dig in and push forward.
When people aren't conscious of
their transformational journey
and they don't have
the proper guidance,
it's easy to get stuck here.
This is what happens if you're
letting the alchemy just happen
to you.
An alchemist of life takes a
more proactive approach here
by devoting themselves to
the great work of reaching
their full potential.
Now, if we want to keep going
through the final stages,
it takes a bit of push.
Next, we move into the
fermentation stage.
This is both a deeper
purification process as well as
a maturing process.
Basically, anything
remaining that is corruptible
needs to die here.
In the physical
operations of alchemy,
we would introduce a
low heat or inner fire
that keeps that transformational
process moving forward.
Here, we're addressing
impurities on a much more
subtle level, and it
takes longer and requires
both patience and persistence.
Anything that's
still corruptible
that's not in its
purest essence will die.
And as it does, it
releases the spirit.
That's why alcohol has
been called spirits,
because it's one of
the essentials that
gets released by fermentation.
Now, at a personal
level, this is
when we're not
quite sure what we
need to be doing at this
stage, and perhaps we're
even fighting
ourselves, but we still
feel the inner fires of
devotion moving us onward.
We're becoming more aware of
the deeper attachments that
were once hidden,
and we're struggling
to let go of them here.
The more we resist,
the more likely
it is that we might experience
a dark night of the soul.
Here, we must face our inner
darkness, the inner demons
that we still struggle with.
These are more deeply-rooted
aspects of our ego
and personality that hold
us back, some of which
we might have even thought
were positive at one point.
And maybe they
were, but now we've
reached a threshold where
they're limiting our growth,
so they have to go.
This stage thus involves
a death of the personality
and any attachments
to our old identity.
There's a real fear
that comes up here,
because we don't
know who we're going
to be without those things.
We might still think that
they're helping us in some way,
but if they're
not really serving
our next level of progression,
then it's time to let them go.
They're somehow limiting
the full embodiment
of our divinity.
And because of this,
it's like a death,
and there's some grief that
can come at this stage,
but it doesn't have
to be miserable.
It's really a matter
of what we do with it.
The more we work with it rather
than fighting against it,
the faster it will go.
What else can we do to get
ourselves through this stage?
Well, in ancient
times, initiates
would move through
this phase faster
by going on a vision quest.
In this process, they
might suppress their senses
to open up the mind
to an inward journey.
For example, they'd immerse
themselves in a dark cave,
or they'd isolate
themselves in the desert
for 40 days and nights.
They'd fast and bring
their body to stillness
to enter into deep
meditative states,
and it was a prolonged inward
process of deep meditation
and cutting off all
the outer distractions.
And by willfully removing
the outside stimulation,
it frees the soul
from its bondage
to the physical matrix
and the old identity.
Another method that alchemists
used to speed up the process
is they would focus intensely
on certain alchemical symbolism.
We find this extensively
in both Western alchemy
and Tibetan
kalachakra traditions.
For example, initiates would
meditate on these images
to invoke the
transformational fire
and keep moving forward
towards higher energies.
They'd incorporate
breath work and chant
to deeply connect between the
inner self and the divine.
And they'd continue
this devotional process
until eventually a vision
would come upon them.
To truly make it through
this stage successfully,
though, this vision
was something
that the initiates needed
to earn on their own
rather than inducing it
through ingesting anything.
They had to learn how
to open up the door
to the spiritual
realms themselves.
This is about
consciously working
through the death
of the old self,
conquering our own inner demons,
and submitting to a higher
will of our divine self.
The inner alchemy happens
through breath work,
meditation, harnessing
the innate life force
energy to then raise
our vibration up,
transcending from ego to spirit.
And through this, we come
to a point of true awakening
and enlightenment.
And when the vision comes, it's
usually very colorful and full
of light.
And it's very real.
And in alchemy, they call that
visionary moment the peacock's
tail or the yellow
phase, and that's
because of the colors
that come with it.
In laboratory alchemy, when
the fermentation is complete
and all that remains
is essential,
the peacock's tail is
literally a rainbowy film
that forms on the
top of the ferment.
Or sometimes it looks like
a yellow golden waxy film.
The fermentation process
requires a lot more personal
effort and focus.
We apply our will,
and we get through it
with patience,
discipline, and devotion.
Once we reach completion and
all the corruptible aspects
are eliminated, we are
then ready to enter
the next stage of distillation.
From here forward, only
the pure essence remains.
Well, once everything
that remains
is pure what more
is there to do?
Our task is to refine and raise
vibration, bringing things
to their highest state.
Distillation involves bringing
the essentials into a solution
and then slowly applying heat.
The more volatile essences
will evaporate first,
and in their vapor state,
the Emerald Tablet of Hermes
says "it ascends from
Earth to heaven."
As they do, they become more
receptive to the influence
of subtle energies, such
as astrological alignments
or the intent and
energy that we send it.
Then we can capture that essence
into a separate vessel that's
cooler and causes that essence
to now recondense into liquid.
And as it does, it brings that
subtle energy back with it
into the denser form
of the physical.
And here's where
the Emerald Tablet
says "and it again
descends to Earth,
and revives the strength of the
superiors and the inferiors."
We take this through several
rounds of distillation,
and every time it distills
into that vapor state,
the solution is infused with
spirit and consciousness.
The energy imbues it.
And then as it recondenses, it
draws that higher vibrational
essence down to be
embodied in the physical.
Now, what might this
distillation process
look like for us?
Well, it involves
ongoing meditations
to rise up from the lower mind
into quantum consciousness.
We come into a
coherent state where
we're connected to
the mind of the all
and receive illumination.
But we're not just hanging out
in this high vibrational level,
we're rising up to be
filled with that light,
and then we're recondensing
it, so to speak.
We bring these high
vibrational frequencies down
into our lives to be
applied, meaning we live it.
And as we do, we manifest
the light into the physical.
Through application,
we learn and we grow,
and we're able to recreate
our life according
to this new vibration.
So it becomes a way of life.
A distillation brings the pure
essence into a mature state
so that it can be perfected
and refined within us.
This is a maturing process,
and it takes time, patience,
and repetition.
We go through many
rounds of distillation
before we get to the final
stage of this process.
That final step is
called coagulation.
It means to crystallize.
Here, the perfection of
the work is attained.
This is where all those
stories of turning lead
into gold or the
Philosopher's Stone come from.
This is the true mastery of the
three essentials, body, soul,
and spirit.
It is the completion of the
great work of merging the three
into one body of light.
Some call it the rainbow
body or the ascension body.
It's the perfection of the self,
transcending death and even
achieving immortality.
But even when a person achieves
such a state, they're not done.
We're on an
ever-evolving journey
to become fully realized
in our divine potential.
It's an infinite journey, always
moving on to the next level.
Enlightenment is not an
ending, it's a beginning.
Alchemy is a cyclic spiral ever
taking us onwards and upwards.
Why should we pay attention to
these seven stages of alchemy?
Well, for one thing,
we want to start
getting all the way through
them rather than getting
stuck and backsliding.
Plus, they give us a map
that guides our process.
When we know what they
are, we can more easily
identify where
we're at in our life
and how to move
forward from there.
Ultimately, the purpose
is to raise our vibration
to the highest
spiritual potential
and then bring that
highest potential back
into the physical.
This is how we unite
above and below.
And as Hermes said toward the
end of the Emerald Tablet,
"so thou has the glory
of the whole world.
Therefore, let all of
security flee before thee.
This is the strong
fortitude of all fortitudes,
overcoming every subtle
thing and penetrating
every solid thing.
And so the world was created."
Now, it may sound arduous
having heard all of these stages
and the work involved.
It may sound like it's
too much, or too hard.
But remember, this
alchemy is part of nature.
It's happening all the time.
What makes it hard
is when we fight it.
When we don't work
with it, we're
working against
the flow of nature.
That's what makes it hard.
The glory that Hermes spoke of
is living the alchemy of life.
When we live life
as an alchemist,
this is how we achieve
our full potential.
That's why the alchemists
call this the Great Work.
Yes, the work is great,
but so is the reward.
This is about the
inner plane first.
As we accomplish this within,
then the outer transforms.
Join me again as
we explore further
into the alchemy of
our world and where
we are as a human collective
in making the big shift.
I'm Dr. Teresa Bullard.
Thank you for exploring
the mysteries of alchemy
with me in this episode
of Mystery Teachings.